# Abstract {.unnumbered}

Diabetic Rethinopaty and Age-Related Macular Degeneration are two of
the main causes of blindness all around the globe. However, both
diseases can be treated, and their effects minimized, if they are
detected on early stages. The current screening system is not scalable
for the unstopable growth of both diseases. During this work, three
different automatic screening systems are proposed. These systems use
some convolutional neural networks previously trained on different
domains. The proposed models are more robust and more interpretable
than some of the state-of-the-art ones through the use of more than
39000 images for training and the use of activation maps during
predictions.



\newpage

# Resumen {.unnumbered}

La Retinopatía Diabética y la Degeneración Macular Asociada a la Edad
son dos de las principales causas de ceguera en todo el mundo. Sin
embargo estas enfermedades pueden ser tratadas, y sus efectos
minimizados, si son detectadas a tiempo. El sistema actual, basado en
la revisión manual de expertos no es viable ante el crecimiento
imparable de ambas. En este trabajo se proponen 3 sistemas para su
detección automática. Estos sistemas usan como punto de partida para
su entrenamiento redes neuronales convolucionales entrenadas
previamente en otros dominios. Las principales ventajas de los
sistemas propuestos frente a los modelos del estado del arte
analizados es la robustez que proporciona haber sido entrenados con
más de 39000 imágenes y la gran interpretabilidad conseguida gracias
al uso de mapas de activación en las predicciones.

\pagenumbering{roman}
\setcounter{page}{1}
